---
layout: post
title: Preamble
---

Hey! I'm Anthony. By day, I'm an undergrad student at the [University of California, Berkeley](https://berkeley.edu), majoring in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science. By night, I'm a casual writer and blogger, data analytics hobbyist, and copious consumer of all things soccer. 

I'd love to pretend that there was some coffee-fueled epiphany that led me to suddenly start this project, but it's really been in the works for awhile, as a three-way marriage of my aforementioned three passions. Today, I finally decided to tie the knot.

So what's this all about anyway? Let's start by looking into the name:

<div class="message">
Tactical (<i>adj.</i>)<br/>
In soccer, describing the strategies, instructions, and mindsets of teams to enhance their collective gameplay.
<br/>
<br/>
Press (<i>n.</i>)
<br/>
1. News, media.
<br/>
2. In soccer, an act of pressure on an opponent to attempt to win the ball or force bad plays.
</div>

In short, **it's a soccer tactics blog, supported by data analytics and visualization**. (I am from the United States, and much of my audience is as well, so I'll be referring to the sport as soccer instead of football.) 

In the modern game, tactics are essential, nuanced, and can be the deciding factor in wins or losses. With the availability of sports data and metrics, I hope to dive into some of the interesting tactical choices of some of the best clubs.

Some may think that tactics are soulless abstractions that detract from the beautiful game. I'm of the opposite opinion here: I think they enable and enhance the beauty. Take away tactical styles like [tiki-taka](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tiki-taka), and you don't have the works of art that are Barcelona's team goals. Take away tactical decisions like playing fast, agile centerbacks to mark pacy strikers, and you won't have so many goal line clearances that get standing ovations. Take away gegenpress from Klopp's [Liverpool](https://liverpoolfc.com/), and you lose that element of raw passion, the magic that results when ten outfield players run themselves into the ground in front of thousands of fans.

I'll approach this project with the same ethos. It's tempting to abstract away players as circles on a green rectangle, but at its core, tactics is about knowing your players. Their strengths, weaknesses, personalities, and motivations. What makes them tick on a good day; what turns them off on a bad one.

Of course, as an observer and fan, I don't get to interact with players the way their managers do, but that's also what makes it fun. There's inherent bias and mystery in how we conduct tactical analyses: baked into the stats and diagrams are opinions and philosophies. 

And that's fine &mdash; after all, there's no 'correct' tactical setup. There are metas, and counter-metas, and setups that work only because [N'Golo Kanté](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/N%27Golo_Kant%C3%A9) has six lungs, and *oh my god I'm playing Lionel Messi, let me man-mark him with five players and oops he still scored*.

The beautiful game is dynamic and ever changing, as we try to find new ways to get a ball inside the net, within the constraints of the laws of physics ([debatable](https://youtu.be/vQZmRqxnH6M)) and some arbitrary lines. 

I think this quote by the 1954 West Germany team's coach sums it up best:

> "The ball is round, the game lasts 90 minutes, everything else is pure theory." &mdash; Sepp Herberger